Ch 2 edits (#61)
LaunchCodeEducation/technical-analyst-curriculum: content/handling-objection/_index.md

---
title: "Chapter 2: Handling Objection"
weight: 102
---

## What Happens After No
***

> We all will have the unfortunate privilege of interacting with someone that is difficult to work with in our personal or professional lives.. We can check our actions and behaviors to ensure we are not making the same mistake as others may have with the same customer or person (managers, co-workers, spouse etc.). Acknowledge and address objections rather than ignoring or dismissing them. Grabbing the objections off the table when they are added allow us to gain better insight and understanding of the situation. A “No” in business rarely means that all the facts have been considered and all options have been exhausted. It’s usually our way of protecting ourselves from unknown outcomes from in the agreement. When we offer a solution to a speaker/customer, and they refuse or reject our offer, we can ask open ended questions to see if there is something we missed. For example, A customer calls in and angry and only wants to talk to a manager/supervisor. We ask if there is anything we can do to help and they say No. What do you do? Take a moment and think about what you will do. Most of us would connect the customer to a manager and move on with our day. However, we can take a few steps prior to the transfer if we ask the right questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We all will have the unfortunate privilege of interacting with someone that is difficult to work with in our personal or professional lives. We can check our actions and behaviors to ensure we are not making the same mistake as others may have with the same customer or person (managers, co-workers, spouse etc.). Acknowledge and address objections rather than ignoring or dismissing them. Grabbing the objections off the table when they are added allow us to gain better insight and understanding of the situation. A “No” in business rarely means that all the facts have been considered and all options have been exhausted. It’s usually our way of protecting ourselves from unknown outcomes from in the agreement. When we offer a solution to a speaker/customer, and they refuse or reject our offer, we can ask open ended questions to see if there is something we missed. For example, A customer calls in and angry and only wants to talk to a manager/supervisor. We ask if there is anything we can do to help and they say No. What do you do? Take a moment and think about what you will do. Most of us would connect the customer to a manager and move on with our day. However, we can take a few steps prior to the transfer if we ask the right questions.
```

We should try to avoid asking if there is anything we can do because there is, we can get a manager or supervisor to talk to the caller as they have requested. Instead, of asking if there is anything we can do we should ask if we can learn more about the issue before we escalate or transfer the call. Additionally, we can add we want to help them avoid repeating him or herself once they’re transferred to someone else. While documenting the call, researching the caller's history and looking for notes we can use to reference or ask questions about the previous calls during our current interaction. For example, I see you spoke with my colleague Asia yesterday about this same issue. How long has this been a problem for you? Give the speaker room to reason with your request for more information and respond to your inquiry before asking another question. When we respond we should search for opportunities to apply an empathic ear and explore alternative solutions to overcome of the objections the customer may have of us. 

> If someone rejects your solution, remember it’s not on you or what you are offering, they are rejecting the idea’s you’ve presented. Do not take it personal. Balance the objection with open ended questions that carry the conversation forward. Repeat their problem back and wait to see if you’ve got it right and offer your solution. If your solution is rejected then ask a follow up question to temperature check the solution and situation. For example, it seems like I don’t have all the facts right. Given what you have told me, the next logical step(s) for me is to  _____________. What about this doesn’t work for you? Always remember that their anger and objection is not validation for something being wrong with you personally. Sometimes we are just on the receiving end of a long day someone's had before they got to us. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If someone objects to your solution, remember it’s not on you or what you are offering, they are objecting to the ideas you’ve presented. Do not take it personally. Balance the objection with open-ended questions that carry the conversation forward. Repeat the problem and wait to see if you’ve got it right and offer your solution. If your solution is rejected then ask a follow-up question to temperature check the solution and situation. For example, it seems like I don’t have all the facts right. Given what you have told me, the next logical step(s) for me is to  _____________. What about this doesn’t work for you? Always remember that their anger and objections are not validation for something being wrong with you. Sometimes we are just on the receiving end of a long day someone's had before they got to us. 
```
